README.md, before:

# Forge

**FORGE - Framework Operations & Resource Guidance Engine**

A Next.js chatbot application built with the Vercel AI SDK and context-aware responses.

## Features

- Real-time chat interface with streaming responses
- Context-aware responses using semantic search
- Web crawling and knowledge base seeding (Pinecone integration ready)
- Modern, responsive design with dark mode support
- Context panel showing relevant sources
- Admin interface for adding knowledge base content
- Demo context system for testing

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- OpenAI API key (required)
- Google AI API key (optional - for Gemini models)
- Pinecone API key and index (optional for full functionality)

### Installation

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add your API keys:
```
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
# Optional - for Google Gemini models:
GOOGLE_AI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_api_key_here
# Optional for full functionality:
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key_here
PINECONE_INDEX=your_pinecone_index_name
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Usage

### Demo Mode (Default)
- The chatbot works immediately with demo context
- Context panel shows sample relevant sources
- Perfect for testing the interface and functionality

### Full Knowledge Base Mode
1. Set up Pinecone API key and index name in `.env.local`
2. Click the "Add Knowledge Base" button on the main page
3. Enter a website URL you want to crawl
4. Click "Crawl Website" to index the content
5. The chatbot will now use this content for context-aware responses

### AI Model Selection

- Choose between OpenAI (GPT-4o-mini) and Google (Gemini 1.5 Flash) models
- Switch models using the radio buttons above the chat interface
- Each model has different strengths and capabilities
- Context-aware responses work with both models

### Embedding Provider Selection

- **OpenAI Embeddings**: 1024 dimensions, high quality semantic search
- **Google Embeddings**: 768 dimensions, fast and cost-effective
- Select embedding provider when crawling websites
- Automatic fallback to OpenAI if Google embeddings fail
- Different embedding providers can be used for crawling vs. chat

### Chatting with Context

- The chatbot automatically retrieves relevant context for your questions
- The context panel shows the sources being used with relevance scores
- Responses are based on both the indexed content and general knowledge
- Context is displayed in a clean, scrollable panel

## Project Structure

- `src/components/` - React components for the chat interface
- `src/app/api/` - API routes for chat, context, and crawling
- `src/utils/` - Utility functions for crawling, embeddings, and context
- `src/types/` - TypeScript type definitions

## Technologies Used

- Next.js 15
- React 19
- Vercel AI SDK
- OpenAI & Google AI Models
- OpenAI & Google Embeddings
- Pinecone Vector Database (optional)
- Tailwind CSS
- TypeScript

## API Endpoints

- `/api/chat` - Main chat endpoint with context-aware responses
- `/api/context` - Retrieve relevant context for queries
- `/api/crawl` - Crawl and index website content

## Current Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed
- Context-aware chat interface
- Context panel with source display
- Web crawling infrastructure
- Embeddings generation
- Demo context system
- Admin interface for knowledge base management
- **Full Pinecone integration**

### 🔄 Ready for Enhancement
- Advanced context retrieval algorithms
- Multi-modal support
- User authentication

## Next Steps

This is Step 3 of the Forge development. The next steps will include:
- Advanced conversation features and memory
- Multi-modal support (images, documents)
- Enhanced context retrieval algorithms
- User authentication and personalization
- Performance optimizations and scaling

## Troubleshooting

### Context Not Loading
- Check that your OpenAI API key is set correctly
- If using Pinecone, ensure your API key and index name are configured
- The demo context will show if Pinecone is not configured

### Crawling Issues
- Ensure the website URL is accessible
- Check browser console for any error messages
- Verify that the website allows web scraping

### Pinecone Setup Issues

#### Common Error: "PineconeNotFoundError" or "404"
This error occurs when the Pinecone index doesn't exist. The application will automatically create the index if it doesn't exist, but you need to ensure:

1. **Valid API Key**: Check that your `PINECONE_API_KEY` is correct
   ```bash
   # In your .env.local file
   PINECONE_API_KEY=your_actual_pinecone_api_key_here
   ```

2. **Index Name**: Ensure your `PINECONE_INDEX` name is valid (alphanumeric, no spaces)
   ```bash
   # In your .env.local file
   PINECONE_INDEX=my-knowledge-base
   ```

3. **Permissions**: Make sure your Pinecone account has permission to create indexes

#### Environment Variables Setup
Create a `.env.local` file in the `forge` directory with:
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key_here
PINECONE_INDEX=your_index_name_here
```

#### Testing Pinecone Connection
1. Visit [Pinecone Console](https://app.pinecone.io/)
2. Verify your API key is active
3. Check if you have permission to create indexes
4. Try creating a test index manually in the console

#### Demo Mode
If Pinecone is not configured or there are issues, the application will automatically fall back to demo mode, showing sample context data.

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and functionality for multi-provider AI system. Added support for Google AI models and embeddings, updated installation instructions, and improved context retrieval mechanisms. Expanded README to include details on embedding provider selection and automatic fallback features. Refined API routes to accommodate new model options and enhanced error handling for provider unavailability.

README.md, after:

# Forge

**FORGE - Framework Operations & Resource Guidance Engine**

A Next.js chatbot application built with the Vercel AI SDK and context-aware responses.

## Features

- **Multi-Provider AI Support**: OpenAI and Google AI models with easy switching
- **Multi-Provider Embeddings**: OpenAI and Google embeddings with automatic fallback
- Real-time chat interface with streaming responses
- Context-aware responses using semantic search
- Web crawling and knowledge base seeding (Pinecone integration ready)
- Modern, responsive design with dark mode support
- Context panel showing relevant sources
- Admin interface for adding knowledge base content
- Demo context system for testing

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+ 
- OpenAI API key (required)
- Google AI API key (optional - for Gemini models and embeddings)
- Pinecone API key and index (optional for full functionality)

### Installation

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Set up environment variables:
Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add your API keys:
```
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
# Optional - for Google Gemini models and embeddings:
GOOGLE_AI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_api_key_here
# Optional for full functionality:
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key_here
PINECONE_INDEX=your_pinecone_index_name
```

3. Run the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser.

## Usage

### Demo Mode (Default)
- The chatbot works immediately with demo context
- Context panel shows sample relevant sources
- Perfect for testing the interface and functionality

### Full Knowledge Base Mode
1. Set up Pinecone API key and index name in `.env.local`
2. Click the "Add Knowledge Base" button on the main page
3. Enter a website URL you want to crawl
4. **Select embedding provider** (OpenAI or Google) for the crawl
5. Click "Crawl Website" to index the content
6. The chatbot will now use this content for context-aware responses

### AI Model Selection

- Choose between OpenAI (GPT-4o-mini) and Google (Gemini 1.5 Flash) models
- Switch models using the radio buttons above the chat interface
- Each model has different strengths and capabilities
- Context-aware responses work with both models
- **Automatic Matching**: Chat model selection determines embedding provider

### Embedding Provider Selection

- **OpenAI Embeddings**: 1024 dimensions, high quality semantic search
- **Google Embeddings**: 768 dimensions, fast and cost-effective
- Select embedding provider when crawling websites
- Automatic fallback to OpenAI if Google embeddings fail
- **Smart Matching**: Google chat model uses Google embeddings, OpenAI uses OpenAI embeddings

### Chatting with Context

- The chatbot automatically retrieves relevant context for your questions
- The context panel shows the sources being used with relevance scores
- Responses are based on both the indexed content and general knowledge
- Context is displayed in a clean, scrollable panel

## Project Structure

- `src/components/` - React components for the chat interface
- `src/app/api/` - API routes for chat, context, and crawling
- `src/utils/` - Utility functions for crawling, embeddings, and context
- `src/types/` - TypeScript type definitions

## Technologies Used

- Next.js 15
- React 19
- Vercel AI SDK
- **Multi-Provider AI**: OpenAI & Google AI Models
- **Multi-Provider Embeddings**: OpenAI & Google Embeddings
- Pinecone Vector Database (optional)
- Tailwind CSS
- TypeScript

## API Endpoints

- `/api/chat` - Main chat endpoint with context-aware responses
- `/api/context` - Retrieve relevant context for queries
- `/api/crawl` - Crawl and index website content

## Current Implementation Status

### ✅ Completed
- **Multi-provider AI system** (OpenAI & Google)
- **Multi-provider embeddings** (OpenAI & Google)
- Context-aware chat interface
- Context panel with source display
- Web crawling infrastructure
- Embeddings generation
- Demo context system
- Admin interface for knowledge base management
- **Full Pinecone integration**

### 🔄 Ready for Enhancement
- Advanced context retrieval algorithms
- Multi-modal support
- User authentication
- Additional AI providers (Anthropic, etc.)

## Next Steps

This is Step 3 of the Forge development. The next steps will include:
- Advanced conversation features and memory
- Multi-modal support (images, documents)
- Enhanced context retrieval algorithms
- User authentication and personalization
- Performance optimizations and scaling

## Troubleshooting

### Context Not Loading
- Check that your OpenAI API key is set correctly
- If using Pinecone, ensure your API key and index name are configured
- The demo context will show if Pinecone is not configured

### Crawling Issues
- Ensure the website URL is accessible
- Check browser console for any error messages
- Verify that the website allows web scraping

### Pinecone Setup Issues

#### Common Error: "PineconeNotFoundError" or "404"
This error occurs when the Pinecone index doesn't exist. The application will automatically create the index if it doesn't exist, but you need to ensure:

1. **Valid API Key**: Check that your `PINECONE_API_KEY` is correct
   ```bash
   # In your .env.local file
   PINECONE_API_KEY=your_actual_pinecone_api_key_here
   ```

2. **Index Name**: Ensure your `PINECONE_INDEX` name is valid (alphanumeric, no spaces)
   ```bash
   # In your .env.local file
   PINECONE_INDEX=my-knowledge-base
   ```

3. **Permissions**: Make sure your Pinecone account has permission to create indexes

#### Environment Variables Setup
Create a `.env.local` file in the `forge` directory with:
```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
PINECONE_API_KEY=your_pinecone_api_key_here
PINECONE_INDEX=your_index_name_here
```

#### Testing Pinecone Connection
1. Visit [Pinecone Console](https://app.pinecone.io/)
2. Verify your API key is active
3. Check if you have permission to create indexes
4. Try creating a test index manually in the console

#### Demo Mode
If Pinecone is not configured or there are issues, the application will automatically fall back to demo mode, showing sample context data.
